cmpsc-610-spring-syllabus.md, before:

# CMPSC 610: Spring Semester of Two-Semester Senior Thesis Research

## Introduction

Your senior thesis process affords you the opportunity to pursue independent
research in computer science. This course parallels the kinds of intense inquiry
and research inherent to both academic life and a career as a computer
scientist, data scientist, or software engineer. To that end, you will work
closely with your readers to explore rich, ever-complex, projects. Though the
faculty cannot promise that this work will be frustration- or challenge-free, we
invite you to pursue it with great enthusiasm, vigor, and to -- above all --
find joy in the process.

## Course Details

- **Description**: Continuation of independent research in computer science,
  data science, software engineering, or informatics, culminating in the
  development of and release of a computational artifact. Must be taken on the
  letter-grade basis. Students are invited to use their own departmentally
  approved laptop in this course; a limited number of laptops are available for
  use during class and lab sessions.
- **Credits**: 4
- **Prerequisite**: `CMPSC 580` and `CMPSC/DS/INFM/SE 610`
- **Distribution Requirements**: `None`

## Course Instructors

- [Oliver Bonham-Carter](https://www.oliverbonhamcarter.com/)
- [Janyl Jumadinova](https://janyljumadinova.com/)
- [Gregory M. Kapfhammer `**`](https://www.gregorykapfhammer.com/)
- [Douglas Luman](https://www.douglasjluman.com/)

The instructor with the `**` symbol after their name is the course coordinator
who is responsible for orchestrating all aspects of the `CMPSC 610` course.
If you have any high-level questions about this course, please contact both the
course coordinator and your first reader(s).
Finally, if you are enrolled in `DOUBL 610` you may have a first reader who is
not in the above list of course instructors.

## Course Schedule

### High-level Overview

- **Week One**: Informal class session due to start of semester
- **Week Two**: Revise content in chapter one
- **Week Three**: Revise content in chapter two
- **Week Four**: Write and revise content in chapter three
- **Week Five**: Write and revise content in chapter three
- **Week Six**: Finalize implementation of computational artifact
- **Week Seven**: No class due to Spring Break
- **Week Eight**: Write and revise content in chapter four
- **Week Nine**: Write and revise content in chapter four
- **Week Ten**: Write and revise content in chapter five
- **Week Eleven**: Write and revise content in chapter five
- **Week Twelve**: Complete final revisions to senior thesis and computational
  artifact
- **Week Thirteen**: One-third of class gives project presentation and
  demonstration
- **Week Fourteen**: One-third of class gives project presentation and
  demonstration
- **Week Fifteen**: One-third of class gives project presentation and
  demonstration
- **Week Sixteen**: Finalize and submit all components of Senior Comprehensive
  Project
- **Friday, May 1, 2026 by 11:59 PM**: Submit final version of Senior
  Comprehensive Project

### Additional Details

- A project presentation includes the following components with these time
  limits:
  - Project presentation: 10 minutes
  - Demonstration of computation artifact: 3 minutes
  - Question and answer session: 2 minutes
  - Total time of presentation session: 15 minutes
- Presenting students must strictly adhere to the stated time limits.
- All students are required to attend and participate as audience members in all
  of project presentations.
- The final version of the senior thesis must be submitted as a PDF in a tagged
  release on GitHub by the stated deadline. The final version of all course
  deliverables must meet all the baseline requirements outlined in the syllabus
  for the CMPSC 600 course.

## Assessment Strategy

### Learning Outcomes

#### CMPSC 610

- Develop a viable and appropriate independent and open-source research project.
- Describe a research process, its methods, and outcomes in writing in the form
  of an incremental research notebook and a formal thesis document.
- Present and communicate complex ideas in a variety of media through both
  informal discussions, peer reviews, and formal presentations.
- Produce and document a working and completed computational artifact.
- Evaluate the produced artifact and reflect on theoretical, practical, ethical
  and social impact of the developed artifact.
- Produce an original project that includes integration of theory and practice
  or software and hardware.

#### DS 610

- Develop a viable and appropriate independent and open-source research project.
- Describe a research process, its methods, and outcomes in writing in the form
  of an incremental research notebook and a formal thesis document.
- Present and communicate complex ideas in a variety of media through both
  informal discussions, peer reviews and formal presentations.
- Produce and document a working and completed data-oriented artifact.
- Evaluate the produced artifact and reflect on theoretical, practical, ethical
  and social impact of the developed artifact.
- Produce an original project that uses a large, complex data set to create a
  web dashboard or extend an existing data science framework via analysis.

#### INFM 610

- Develop a viable and appropriate independent and open-source research project.
- Describe a research process, its methods, and outcomes in writing in the form
  of an incremental research notebook and a formal thesis document.
- Present and communicate complex ideas in a variety of media through both
  informal discussions, peer reviews and formal presentations.
- Produce and document a working and completed information-informed artifact.
- Evaluate the produced artifact and reflect on theoretical, practical, ethical
  and social impact of the developed artifact.
- Produce an original project that integrates multiple disciplines and provides
  critical engagement of impact of technology on various communities.

### Assessment Categories

For the purposes of evaluation, this course is separated into both "primary" and
"secondary" requirements, as explained in the following table. This table
includes the name of the deliverable, its categorization as either a primary or
a secondary requirement, and the assigned percentage of the overall course
grade. All of these percentages are approximate and, if the need to do so
presents itself, the course coordinator may, for instance, change the assigned
percentages during the academic semester.

|**Deliverable** |**Categorization** |**Percentage** |
|:----------------------|:------------------|:--------------|
|Research Notebook |Secondary |5% |
|Class Participation |Secondary |7.5% |
|Adviser Meetings |Secondary |7.5% |
|Computational Artifact |Primary |15% |
|Project Presentation |Primary |15% |
|Project Demonstration |Primary |15% |
|Final Thesis Chapters |Primary |35% |

To pass a `610`-level course in Computer and Information Science, submission of
and participation in all the primary requirements is mandatory. In addition to
an overall evaluation of each category, a student's work in the `610`-level
Computer and Information Science course will be evaluated according to each of
the following baseline requirements. Please note that these requirements
articulate a baseline for the `610`-level course in Computer and Information
Science and are provided as a list of minimum requirements that all specific
research deliverables must meet to be assessed as complete. Please note that the
only baseline requirements in the following `General Thesis Requirements`
section that will contribute to a student's grade in this course are those that
reasonably pertain the deliverables in the `610`-level course. Before the
submission of a final grade, a student's assessment scores for these categories
will be initially assigned by their first reader, reviewed by their second
reader, approved by all faculty members who are instructors for a `610`-level
course in Computer and Information Science at Allegheny College.

Students who are enrolled in `DOUBL 610` are also required to write a course
contract that describes the deliverables and the deadlines by which they will
complete them for both `610`-level course in Computer and Information Science
and the course for their additional major. Importantly, students in `DOUBL 610`
must complete _all_ the requirements for _both_ the `610`-level course in
Computer and Information Science _and_ the `610` course connected to their other
major. Students who enroll in `DOUBL 610` should submit their course contract to
both of their first readers and the coordinator of the `610`-level course in
Computer and Information Science.

To pass `CMPSC 610`, submission of and participation in all the primary
requirements is mandatory. In addition to an overall evaluation of each
category, a student's work in `CMPSC 610` will be evaluated according to each of
the following baseline requirements. Students who are enrolled in `DOUBL 610`
are also required to write a course contract that describes the deliverables and
the deadlines by which they will complete them for both `CMPSC 610` and the
course for their additional major. Importantly, students in `DOUBL 610` must
complete _all_ the requirements for _both_ `CMPSC 610` _and_ the `610` course
connected to their other major. Students who enroll in `DOUBL 610` should submit
their course contract to both of their first readers and the `CMPSC 610` course
coordinator.

### Institutional Review Board (IRB) Proposals

Should a project require Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval for use of
human subjects in the research project, the proposing student is responsible for
writing and having an approved IRB proposal before conducting any of the
experimentation associated with their undergraduate research.
Students must submit their IRB proposal to their First Reader who will review it
and provide feedback on it before submitting it to the IRB.
In accordance with Allegheny College policies, students may not submit their IRB
proposal directly to the IRB and may not start working on any of their experiments
before receiving IRB approval.

## Required Materials

### Course Textbooks

There are no required textbooks for this course.
However, the faculty _highly recommend_ investing in the following texts for
both academic and professional development:

|Title |Author |ISBN/ASIN |
|:-----|:------|:----|
|_On Being a Scientist (3rd ed.)_ |National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, and Institute of Medicine |978-0309119702 |
|_BUGS in Writing: A Guide to Debugging your Prose_ |Lyn Dupre |978-0201379211 |
|_Writing for Computer Science (3rd ed.)_|Justin Zobel|978-1852338022 |
|_Published_|Thomas Deetjen|B085MQN3Q8 |

### Course Platforms

- [ReadyResearchers Organization on GitHub](https://github.com/ReadyResearchers)
- [Ready, Set, Research! Discord Server](https://discord.gg/KBMAHZRH9x)

This course relies heavily on the above GitHub organization and Discord server.
Your work will be assigned and evaluated on and crucial communication
distributed through these two platforms.
You are expected to register for and remain active on these platforms throughout
the academic year.

### Course Repositories

You are responsible for accepting and maintaining GitHub repositories for each
of the assigned course projects.
Repositories include completion- and submission-specific instructions via
`README` files.
Many of these operations feature using GitHub's tagging mechanism to release
PDFs of your proposal with versions that adhere to the course's semantic
versioning standard.

**Course instructors will only grade and provide feedback on projects that are
stored in and properly released through GitHub.**

## Course Policies

### Course Attendance

It is mandatory for all students to attend the course sessions.
If, due to extenuating circumstances, you will not be able to attend a session,
then, whenever possible, please communicate with the course coordinator at least
one week in advance to describe your situation.
Students who have any signs of illness should not attend any in-person course
sessions.

### Email Policy

Despite the fact that the majority of our communication relies on the [Ready,
Set, Research!
Discord Server](https://discord.gg/KBMAHZRH9x) and other platforms such as the
[ReadyResearchers Organization on GitHub](https://github.com/ReadyResearchers),
the faculty may occasionally use email to communicate significant information.
As with other the other platforms used by this course, it is your responsibility
to be accountable for email communication.

### Syllabus Revision

The faculty of the Department of Computer Science reserve the right to make
changes to this syllabus document.
Should a change occur, they may be discussed with the members of the course
community.
Minor revisions to wording that do not impact course events or deliverables may
be made without notice.
Any change which impacts dates or significant changes in student responsibility
will be communicated -- in writing -- at least one week in advance of the due
date of the deliverable affected.

### Honor Code

All students and faculty at Allegheny College are bound by the Honor Code.
Everyone expects that your behavior reflects this commitment.
Given the eminently shareable and reproducible nature of code, the Department of
Computer Science adds the following statement to the general college policy:

> It is recognized that an important part of the learning process in any course,
> and particularly in computer science, derives from thoughtful discussions with
> teachers, student assistants, and fellow students.
> Such dialogue is encouraged.
> However, it is necessary to distinguish carefully between the student who
> discusses the principles underlying a problem with others, and the student who
> produces assignments that are identical to, or merely variations on, someone
> else’s work.
> It will therefore be understood that all assignments submitted to faculty of the
> Department of Computer Science are to be the original work of the student
> submitting the assignment, and should be signed in accordance with the
> provisions of the Honor Code.
> Appropriate action will be taken when assignments give evidence that they were
> derived from the work of others.

As the nature of "plagiarism" and constituents of "fair use" change often, the
department encourages you to periodically review the specific tenets of the
general college Honor Code provided in the latest course catalog and in the
_Compass_.

The above statement, of course, also applies to online forums such as Stack
Overflow or text generation systems such as ChatGPT.

### Classroom Ethics

The discipline of computer science, like many others, encourages its members to
act according to discipline-specific ethics.
The faculty encourage you to take time to review the Association for Computing
Machinery (ACM) [Code of
Ethics](https://www.acm.org/binaries/content/assets/about/acm-code-of-ethics-booklet.pdf).

### Seeking Assistance

#### Course Assistance

Students who struggle to understand the knowledge and skills introduced in this course
are encouraged to seek assistance from their first and second readers.
To meet with your first and second readers, please visit their web site.
Historically, students who are successful in department courses visit and
discuss course processes and assignments early and often.

#### Outside Assistance

If you find yourself in difficult circumstances which affect your ability to
participate in or complete course work, let us know immediately -- **full
stop**.

Do not wait until the end of the semester.

Part of our role as course instructors is to make sure that students receive the
assistance they need.
Do not hesitate to let us know if there is anything we can do with respect to
your ability to handle your work.
This is especially true of our current circumstances of the on-going global
pandemic.
Again, let us remind and encourage you -- _**it is part of our job**_ to help
you access Allegheny College resources that will enable your safety and success.

In many situations, the following list of resources may prove useful:

- [The Maytum Center for Student Success](https://sites.allegheny.edu/studentsuccess/)
- [Allegheny College Counseling Center](https://sites.allegheny.edu/counseling/)
- [Winslow Health Center](https://sites.allegheny.edu/healthcenter/)
- [Student Life](https://sites.allegheny.edu/studentlife/)
- [Student Accessibility and Support Services](https://sites.allegheny.edu/studentaccessibility/)

### Special Needs

Students with disabilities who need accommodations in this course are encouraged
to contact Disability Services at `+1 814-332-2898`.
Disability Services is part of the Learning Commons, located in Pelletier
Library.
Should you need accommodations, contact this office as soon as possible to
ensure that approved accommodations are communicated and implemented as quickly
as possible.
This serves everyone involved in providing the best environment for learning and
support.

Commit message:

refactor: Add the block for learning outcomes for the last class in cmpsc-610-spring-syllabus.md.

cmpsc-610-spring-syllabus.md, after:

# CMPSC 610: Spring Semester of Two-Semester Senior Thesis Research

## Introduction

Your senior thesis process affords you the opportunity to pursue independent
research in computer science. This course parallels the kinds of intense inquiry
and research inherent to both academic life and a career as a computer
scientist, data scientist, or software engineer. To that end, you will work
closely with your readers to explore rich, ever-complex, projects. Though the
faculty cannot promise that this work will be frustration- or challenge-free, we
invite you to pursue it with great enthusiasm, vigor, and to -- above all --
find joy in the process.

## Course Details

- **Description**: Continuation of independent research in computer science,
  data science, software engineering, or informatics, culminating in the
  development of and release of a computational artifact. Must be taken on the
  letter-grade basis. Students are invited to use their own departmentally
  approved laptop in this course; a limited number of laptops are available for
  use during class and lab sessions.
- **Credits**: 4
- **Prerequisite**: `CMPSC 580` and `CMPSC/DS/INFM/SE 610`
- **Distribution Requirements**: `None`

## Course Instructors

- [Oliver Bonham-Carter](https://www.oliverbonhamcarter.com/)
- [Janyl Jumadinova](https://janyljumadinova.com/)
- [Gregory M. Kapfhammer `**`](https://www.gregorykapfhammer.com/)
- [Douglas Luman](https://www.douglasjluman.com/)

The instructor with the `**` symbol after their name is the course coordinator
who is responsible for orchestrating all aspects of the `CMPSC 610` course.
If you have any high-level questions about this course, please contact both the
course coordinator and your first reader(s).
Finally, if you are enrolled in `DOUBL 610` you may have a first reader who is
not in the above list of course instructors.

## Course Schedule

### High-level Overview

- **Week One**: Informal class session due to start of semester
- **Week Two**: Revise content in chapter one
- **Week Three**: Revise content in chapter two
- **Week Four**: Write and revise content in chapter three
- **Week Five**: Write and revise content in chapter three
- **Week Six**: Finalize implementation of computational artifact
- **Week Seven**: No class due to Spring Break
- **Week Eight**: Write and revise content in chapter four
- **Week Nine**: Write and revise content in chapter four
- **Week Ten**: Write and revise content in chapter five
- **Week Eleven**: Write and revise content in chapter five
- **Week Twelve**: Complete final revisions to senior thesis and computational
  artifact
- **Week Thirteen**: One-third of class gives project presentation and
  demonstration
- **Week Fourteen**: One-third of class gives project presentation and
  demonstration
- **Week Fifteen**: One-third of class gives project presentation and
  demonstration
- **Week Sixteen**: Finalize and submit all components of Senior Comprehensive
  Project
- **Friday, May 1, 2026 by 11:59 PM**: Submit final version of Senior
  Comprehensive Project

### Additional Details

- A project presentation includes the following components with these time
  limits:
  - Project presentation: 10 minutes
  - Demonstration of computation artifact: 3 minutes
  - Question and answer session: 2 minutes
  - Total time of presentation session: 15 minutes
- Presenting students must strictly adhere to the stated time limits.
- All students are required to attend and participate as audience members in all
  of project presentations.
- The final version of the senior thesis must be submitted as a PDF in a tagged
  release on GitHub by the stated deadline. The final version of all course
  deliverables must meet all the baseline requirements outlined in the syllabus
  for the CMPSC 600 course.

## Assessment Strategy

### Learning Outcomes

#### CMPSC 610

- Develop a viable and appropriate independent and open-source research project.
- Describe a research process, its methods, and outcomes in writing in the form
  of an incremental research notebook and a formal thesis document.
- Present and communicate complex ideas in a variety of media through both
  informal discussions, peer reviews, and formal presentations.
- Produce and document a working and completed computational artifact.
- Evaluate the produced artifact and reflect on theoretical, practical, ethical
  and social impact of the developed artifact.
- Produce an original project that includes integration of theory and practice
  or software and hardware.

#### DS 610

- Develop a viable and appropriate independent and open-source research project.
- Describe a research process, its methods, and outcomes in writing in the form
  of an incremental research notebook and a formal thesis document.
- Present and communicate complex ideas in a variety of media through both
  informal discussions, peer reviews and formal presentations.
- Produce and document a working and completed data-oriented artifact.
- Evaluate the produced artifact and reflect on theoretical, practical, ethical
  and social impact of the developed artifact.
- Produce an original project that uses a large, complex data set to create a
  web dashboard or extend an existing data science framework via analysis.

#### INFM 610

- Develop a viable and appropriate independent and open-source research project.
- Describe a research process, its methods, and outcomes in writing in the form
  of an incremental research notebook and a formal thesis document.
- Present and communicate complex ideas in a variety of media through both
  informal discussions, peer reviews and formal presentations.
- Produce and document a working and completed information-informed artifact.
- Evaluate the produced artifact and reflect on theoretical, practical, ethical
  and social impact of the developed artifact.
- Produce an original project that integrates multiple disciplines and provides
  critical engagement of impact of technology on various communities.

#### SE 610

- Develop a viable and appropriate independent and open-source research project.
- Describe a research process, its methods, and outcomes in writing in the form
  of an incremental research notebook and a formal thesis document.
- Present and communicate complex ideas in a variety of media through both
  informal discussions, peer reviews and formal presentations.
- Produce and document a working, completed, engineered software artifact.
- Evaluate the produced prototype and reflect on theoretical, practical,
  ethical, and social impact of the produced artifact.
- Produce an original software project that is working, well-tested, and
  deployed into production use.

### Assessment Categories

For the purposes of evaluation, this course is separated into both "primary" and
"secondary" requirements, as explained in the following table. This table
includes the name of the deliverable, its categorization as either a primary or
a secondary requirement, and the assigned percentage of the overall course
grade. All of these percentages are approximate and, if the need to do so
presents itself, the course coordinator may, for instance, change the assigned
percentages during the academic semester.

|**Deliverable** |**Categorization** |**Percentage** |
|:----------------------|:------------------|:--------------|
|Research Notebook |Secondary |5% |
|Class Participation |Secondary |7.5% |
|Adviser Meetings |Secondary |7.5% |
|Computational Artifact |Primary |15% |
|Project Presentation |Primary |15% |
|Project Demonstration |Primary |15% |
|Final Thesis Chapters |Primary |35% |

To pass a `610`-level course in Computer and Information Science, submission of
and participation in all the primary requirements is mandatory. In addition to
an overall evaluation of each category, a student's work in the `610`-level
Computer and Information Science course will be evaluated according to each of
the following baseline requirements. Please note that these requirements
articulate a baseline for the `610`-level course in Computer and Information
Science and are provided as a list of minimum requirements that all specific
research deliverables must meet to be assessed as complete. Please note that the
only baseline requirements in the following `General Thesis Requirements`
section that will contribute to a student's grade in this course are those that
reasonably pertain the deliverables in the `610`-level course. Before the
submission of a final grade, a student's assessment scores for these categories
will be initially assigned by their first reader, reviewed by their second
reader, approved by all faculty members who are instructors for a `610`-level
course in Computer and Information Science at Allegheny College.

Students who are enrolled in `DOUBL 610` are also required to write a course
contract that describes the deliverables and the deadlines by which they will
complete them for both `610`-level course in Computer and Information Science
and the course for their additional major. Importantly, students in `DOUBL 610`
must complete _all_ the requirements for _both_ the `610`-level course in
Computer and Information Science _and_ the `610` course connected to their other
major. Students who enroll in `DOUBL 610` should submit their course contract to
both of their first readers and the coordinator of the `610`-level course in
Computer and Information Science.

To pass `CMPSC 610`, submission of and participation in all the primary
requirements is mandatory. In addition to an overall evaluation of each
category, a student's work in `CMPSC 610` will be evaluated according to each of
the following baseline requirements. Students who are enrolled in `DOUBL 610`
are also required to write a course contract that describes the deliverables and
the deadlines by which they will complete them for both `CMPSC 610` and the
course for their additional major. Importantly, students in `DOUBL 610` must
complete _all_ the requirements for _both_ `CMPSC 610` _and_ the `610` course
connected to their other major. Students who enroll in `DOUBL 610` should submit
their course contract to both of their first readers and the `CMPSC 610` course
coordinator.

### Institutional Review Board (IRB) Proposals

Should a project require Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval for use of
human subjects in the research project, the proposing student is responsible for
writing and having an approved IRB proposal before conducting any of the
experimentation associated with their undergraduate research.
Students must submit their IRB proposal to their First Reader who will review it
and provide feedback on it before submitting it to the IRB.
In accordance with Allegheny College policies, students may not submit their IRB
proposal directly to the IRB and may not start working on any of their experiments
before receiving IRB approval.

## Required Materials

### Course Textbooks

There are no required textbooks for this course.
However, the faculty _highly recommend_ investing in the following texts for
both academic and professional development:

|Title |Author |ISBN/ASIN |
|:-----|:------|:----|
|_On Being a Scientist (3rd ed.)_ |National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, and Institute of Medicine |978-0309119702 |
|_BUGS in Writing: A Guide to Debugging your Prose_ |Lyn Dupre |978-0201379211 |
|_Writing for Computer Science (3rd ed.)_|Justin Zobel|978-1852338022 |
|_Published_|Thomas Deetjen|B085MQN3Q8 |

### Course Platforms

- [ReadyResearchers Organization on GitHub](https://github.com/ReadyResearchers)
- [Ready, Set, Research! Discord Server](https://discord.gg/KBMAHZRH9x)

This course relies heavily on the above GitHub organization and Discord server.
Your work will be assigned and evaluated on and crucial communication
distributed through these two platforms.
You are expected to register for and remain active on these platforms throughout
the academic year.

### Course Repositories

You are responsible for accepting and maintaining GitHub repositories for each
of the assigned course projects.
Repositories include completion- and submission-specific instructions via
`README` files.
Many of these operations feature using GitHub's tagging mechanism to release
PDFs of your proposal with versions that adhere to the course's semantic
versioning standard.

**Course instructors will only grade and provide feedback on projects that are
stored in and properly released through GitHub.**

## Course Policies

### Course Attendance

It is mandatory for all students to attend the course sessions.
If, due to extenuating circumstances, you will not be able to attend a session,
then, whenever possible, please communicate with the course coordinator at least
one week in advance to describe your situation.
Students who have any signs of illness should not attend any in-person course
sessions.

### Email Policy

Despite the fact that the majority of our communication relies on the [Ready,
Set, Research!
Discord Server](https://discord.gg/KBMAHZRH9x) and other platforms such as the
[ReadyResearchers Organization on GitHub](https://github.com/ReadyResearchers),
the faculty may occasionally use email to communicate significant information.
As with other the other platforms used by this course, it is your responsibility
to be accountable for email communication.

### Syllabus Revision

The faculty of the Department of Computer Science reserve the right to make
changes to this syllabus document.
Should a change occur, they may be discussed with the members of the course
community.
Minor revisions to wording that do not impact course events or deliverables may
be made without notice.
Any change which impacts dates or significant changes in student responsibility
will be communicated -- in writing -- at least one week in advance of the due
date of the deliverable affected.

### Honor Code

All students and faculty at Allegheny College are bound by the Honor Code.
Everyone expects that your behavior reflects this commitment.
Given the eminently shareable and reproducible nature of code, the Department of
Computer Science adds the following statement to the general college policy:

> It is recognized that an important part of the learning process in any course,
> and particularly in computer science, derives from thoughtful discussions with
> teachers, student assistants, and fellow students.
> Such dialogue is encouraged.
> However, it is necessary to distinguish carefully between the student who
> discusses the principles underlying a problem with others, and the student who
> produces assignments that are identical to, or merely variations on, someone
> else’s work.
> It will therefore be understood that all assignments submitted to faculty of the
> Department of Computer Science are to be the original work of the student
> submitting the assignment, and should be signed in accordance with the
> provisions of the Honor Code.
> Appropriate action will be taken when assignments give evidence that they were
> derived from the work of others.

As the nature of "plagiarism" and constituents of "fair use" change often, the
department encourages you to periodically review the specific tenets of the
general college Honor Code provided in the latest course catalog and in the
_Compass_.

The above statement, of course, also applies to online forums such as Stack
Overflow or text generation systems such as ChatGPT.

### Classroom Ethics

The discipline of computer science, like many others, encourages its members to
act according to discipline-specific ethics.
The faculty encourage you to take time to review the Association for Computing
Machinery (ACM) [Code of
Ethics](https://www.acm.org/binaries/content/assets/about/acm-code-of-ethics-booklet.pdf).

### Seeking Assistance

#### Course Assistance

Students who struggle to understand the knowledge and skills introduced in this course
are encouraged to seek assistance from their first and second readers.
To meet with your first and second readers, please visit their web site.
Historically, students who are successful in department courses visit and
discuss course processes and assignments early and often.

#### Outside Assistance

If you find yourself in difficult circumstances which affect your ability to
participate in or complete course work, let us know immediately -- **full
stop**.

Do not wait until the end of the semester.

Part of our role as course instructors is to make sure that students receive the
assistance they need.
Do not hesitate to let us know if there is anything we can do with respect to
your ability to handle your work.
This is especially true of our current circumstances of the on-going global
pandemic.
Again, let us remind and encourage you -- _**it is part of our job**_ to help
you access Allegheny College resources that will enable your safety and success.

In many situations, the following list of resources may prove useful:

- [The Maytum Center for Student Success](https://sites.allegheny.edu/studentsuccess/)
- [Allegheny College Counseling Center](https://sites.allegheny.edu/counseling/)
- [Winslow Health Center](https://sites.allegheny.edu/healthcenter/)
- [Student Life](https://sites.allegheny.edu/studentlife/)
- [Student Accessibility and Support Services](https://sites.allegheny.edu/studentaccessibility/)

### Special Needs

Students with disabilities who need accommodations in this course are encouraged
to contact Disability Services at `+1 814-332-2898`.
Disability Services is part of the Learning Commons, located in Pelletier
Library.
Should you need accommodations, contact this office as soon as possible to
ensure that approved accommodations are communicated and implemented as quickly
as possible.
This serves everyone involved in providing the best environment for learning and
support.
